01:01 The word of the LORD that came unto Hosea the son of Beeri, in the days of Uzziah, Jotham, Ahaz, and Hezekiah, kings of Judah, and in the days of Jeroboam the son of Joash, king of Israel.
01:02 When the LORD spake at the first by Hosea, the LORD said unto Hosea, Go, take unto thee a wife of whoredom and children of whoredom: for the land doth commit great whoredom, departing from the LORD.
01:03 So he went and took Gomer the daughter of Diblaim; and she conceived, and bare him a son.
01:04 And the LORD said unto him, Call his name Jezreel; for yet a little while, and I will avenge the blood of Jezreel upon the house of Jehu, and will cause the kingdom of the house of Israel to cease.
01:05 And it shall come to pass at that day, that I will break the bow of Israel in the valley of Jezreel.
01:06 And she conceived again, and bare a daughter. And [the LORD] said unto him, Call her name Lo-ruhamah: for I will no more have mercy upon the house of Israel, that I should in any wise pardon them.
01:07 But I will have mercy upon the house of Judah, and will save them by the LORD their God, and will not save them by bow, nor by sword, nor by battle, by horses, nor by horsemen.
01:08 Now when she had weaned Lo-ruhamah, she conceived, and bare a son.
01:09 And [the LORD] said, Call his name Lo-ammi: for ye are not my people, and I will not be your [God].
01:10 Yet the number of the children of Israel shall be as the sand of the sea, which cannot be measured nor numbered; and it shall come to pass that, in the place where it was said unto them, Ye are not my people, it shall be said unto them, [Ye are] the sons of the living God.
01:11 And the children of Judah and the children of Israel shall be gathered together, and they shall appoint themselves one head, and shall go up from the land: for great shall be the day of Jezreel.
02:01 Say ye unto your brethren, Ammi; and to your sisters, Ruhamah.
02:02 Plead with your mother, plead; for she is not my wife, neither am I her husband: and let her put away her whoredoms from her face, and her adulteries from between her breasts;
02:03 lest I strip her naked, and set her as in the day that she was born, and make her as a wilderness, and set her like a dry land, and slay her with thirst;
02:04 Yea, upon her children will I have no mercy; for they be children of whoredom.
02:05 for their mother hath played the harlot: she that conceived them hath done shamefully: for she said, I will go after my lovers, that give me my bread and my water, my wool and my flax, mine oil and my drink.
02:06 Therefore, behold, I will hedge up thy way with thorns, and I will make a fence against her, that she shall not find her paths.
02:07 And she shall follow after her lovers, but she shall not overtake them; and she shall seek them, but shall not find them: then shall she say, I will go and return to my first husband; for then was it better with me than now.
02:08 For she did not know that I gave her the corn, and the wine, and the oil, and multiplied unto her silver and gold, which they used for Baal.
02:09 Therefore will I take back my corn in the time thereof, and my wine in the season thereof, and will pluck away my wool and my flax which should have covered her nakedness.
02:10 And now will I discover her lewdness in the sight of her lovers, and none shall deliver her out of mine hand.
02:11 I will also cause all her mirth to cease, her feasts, her new moons, and her sabbaths, and all her solemn assemblies.
02:12 And I will lay waste her vines and her fig trees, whereof she hath said, These are my hire that my lovers have given me: and I will make them a forest, and the beasts of the field shall eat them.
02:13 And I will visit upon her the days of the Baalim, unto which she burned incense; when she decked herself with her earrings and her jewels, and went after her lovers, and forgat me, saith the LORD.
02:14 Therefore, behold, I will allure her, and bring her into the wilderness, and speak comfortably unto her.
02:15 And I will give her her vineyards from thence, and the valley of Achor for a door of hope: and she shall make answer there, as in the days of her youth, and as in the day when she came up out of the land of Egypt.
02:16 And it shall be at that day, saith the LORD, that thou shalt call me Ishi; and shalt call me no more Baali.
02:17 For I will take away the names of the Baalim out of her mouth, and they shall no more be mentioned by their name.
02:18 And in that day will I make a covenant for them with the beasts of the field, and with the fowls of heaven, and with the creeping things of the ground: and I will break the bow and the sword and the battle out of the land, and will make them to lie down safely.
02:19 And I will betroth thee unto me for ever; yea, I will betroth thee unto me in righteousness, and in judgment, and in lovingkindness, and in mercies.
02:20 I will even betroth thee unto me in faithfulness: and thou shalt know the LORD.
02:21 And it shall come to pass in that day, I will answer, saith the LORD, I will answer the heavens, and they shall answer the earth;
02:22 and the earth shall answer the corn, and the wine, and the oil; and they shall answer Jezreel.
02:23 And I wilt sow her unto me in the earth; and I will have mercy upon her that had not obtained mercy; and I will say to them which were not my people, Thou art my people; and they shall say, [Thou art] my God.
03:01 And the LORD said unto me, Go yet, love a woman beloved of [her] friend and an adulteress, even as the LORD loveth the children of Israel, though they turn unto other gods, and love cakes of raisins.
03:02 So I bought her to me for fifteen [pieces] of silver, and an homer of barley, and an half homer of barley:
03:03 and I said unto her, Thou shalt abide for me many days; thou shalt not play the harlot, and thou shalt not be any man's wife: so will I also be toward thee.
03:04 For the children of Israel shall abide many days without king, and without prince, and without sacrifice, and without pillar, and without ephod or teraphim.
03:05 afterward shall the children of Israel return, and seek the LORD their God, and David their king; and shall come with fear unto the LORD and to his goodness in the latter days.
04:01 Hear the word of the LORD, ye children of Israel: for the LORD hath a controversy with the inhabitants of the land, because there is no truth, nor mercy, nor knowledge of God in the land.
04:02 There is nought but swearing and breaking faith, and killing, and stealing, and committing adultery; they break out, and blood toucheth blood.
04:03 Therefore shall the land mourn, and every one that dwelleth therein shall languish, with the beasts of the field and the fowls of heaven; yea, the fishes of the sea also shall be taken away.
04:04 Yet let no man strive, neither let any man reprove; for thy people are as they that strive with the priest.
04:05 And thou shalt stumble in the day, and the prophet also shall stumble with thee in the night; and I will destroy thy mother.
04:06 My people are destroyed for lack of knowledge: because thou hast rejected knowledge, I will also reject thee, that thou shalt be no priest to me: seeing thou hast forgotten the law of thy God, I also will forget thy children.
04:07 As they were multiplied, so they sinned against me: I will change their glory into shame.
04:08 They feed on the sin of my people, and set their heart on their iniquity.
04:09 And it shall be, like people, like priest: and I will punish them for their ways, and will reward them their doings.
04:10 And they shall eat, and not have enough; they shall commit whoredom, and shall not increase: because they have left off to take heed to the LORD.
04:11 Whoredom and wine and new wine take away the understanding.
04:12 My people ask counsel at their stock, and their staff declareth unto them: for the spirit of whoredom hath caused them to err, and they have gone a whoring from under their God.
04:13 They sacrifice upon the tops of the mountains, and burn incense upon the hills, under oaks and poplars and terebinths, because the shadow thereof is good: therefore your daughters commit whoredom, and your brides commit adultery.
04:14 I will not punish your daughters when they commit whoredom, nor your brides when they commit adultery; for they themselves go apart with whores, and they sacrifice with the harlots: and the people that doth not understand shall be overthrown.
04:15 Though thou, Israel, play the harlot, yet let not Judah offend; and come not ye unto Gilgal, neither go ye up to Beth-aven, nor swear, As the LORD liveth.
04:16 For Israel hath behaved himself stubbornly, like a stubborn heifer: now will the LORD feed them as a lamb in a large place.
04:17 Ephraim is joined to idols; let him alone.
04:18 Their drink is become sour: they commit whoredom continually; her rulers dearly love shame.
04:19 The wind hath wrapped her up in its wings; and they shall be ashamed because of their sacrifices.
05:01 Hear this, O ye priests, and hearken, ye house of Israel, and give ear, O house of the king, for unto you pertain the judgment; for ye have been a snare at Mizpah, and a net spread upon Tabor.
05:02 And the revolters are gone deep in making slaughter; but I am a rebuker of them all.
05:03 I know Ephraim, and Israel is not hid from me: for now, O Ephraim, thou hast committed whoredom, Israel is defiled.
05:04 Their doings will not suffer them to turn unto their God: for the spirit of whoredom is within them, and they know not the LORD.
05:05 And the pride of Israel doth testify to his face: therefore Israel and Ephraim shall stumble in their iniquity; Judah also shall stumble with them.
05:06 They shall go with their flocks and with their herds to seek the LORD; but they shall not find him: he hath withdrawn himself from them.
05:07 They have dealt treacherously against the LORD; for they have borne strange children: now shall the new moon devour them with their fields.
05:08 Blow ye the cornet in Gibeah, and the trumpet in Ramah: sound an alarm at Beth-aven; behind thee, O Benjamin.
05:09 Ephraim shall become a desolation in the day of rebuke: among the tribes of Israel have I made known that which shall surely be.
05:10 The princes of Judah are like them that remove the landmark: I will pour out my wrath upon them like water.
05:11 Ephraim is oppressed, he is crushed in judgment; because he was content to walk after the command.
05:12 Therefore am I unto Ephraim as a moth, and to the house of Judah as rottenness.
05:13 When Ephraim saw his sickness, and Judah [saw] his wound, then went Ephraim to Assyria, and sent to king Jareb: but he is not able to heal you, neither shall he cure you of your wound.
05:14 For I will be unto Ephraim as a lion, and as a young lion to the house of Judah: I, even I, will tear and go away; I will carry off, and there shall be none to deliver.
05:15 I will go and return to my place, till they acknowledge their offence, and seek my face: in their affliction they will seek me earnestly.
06:01 Come, and let us return unto the LORD: for he hath torn, and he will heal us; he hath smitten, and he will bind us up.
06:02 After two days will he revive us: on the third day he will raise us up, and we shall live before him.
06:03 And let us know, let us follow on to know the LORD; his going forth is sure as the morning: and he shall come unto us as the rain, as the latter rain that watereth the earth.
06:04 O Ephraim, what shall I do unto thee? O Judah, what shall I do unto thee? for your goodness is as a morning cloud, and as the dew that goeth early away.
06:05 Therefore have I hewed them by the prophets; I have slain them by the words of my mouth: and thy judgments are [as] the light that goeth forth.
06:06 For I desire mercy, and not sacrifice; and the knowledge of God more than burnt offerings.
06:07 But they like Adam have transgressed the covenant: there have they dealt treacherously against me.
06:08 Gilead is a city of them that work iniquity, it is stained with blood.
06:09 And as troops of robbers wait for a man, so the company of priests murder in the way toward Shechem; yea, they have committed lewdness.
06:10 In the house of Israel I have seen an horrible thing: there whoredom is [found] in Ephraim, Israel is defiled.
06:11 Also, O Judah, there is an harvest appointed for thee, when I bring again the captivity of my people.
07:01 When I would heal Israel, then is the iniquity of Ephraim discovered, and the wickedness of Samaria; for they commit falsehood: and the thief entereth in, [and] the troop of robbers spoileth without.
07:02 And they consider not in their hearts that I remember all their wickedness: now have their own doings beset them about; they are before my face.
07:03 They make the king glad with their wickedness, and the princes with their lies.
07:04 They are all adulterers; they are as an oven heated by the baker; he ceaseth to stir [the fire], from the kneading of the dough until it be leavened.
07:05 On the day of our king the princes made themselves sick with the heat of wine; he stretched out his hand with scorners.
07:06 For they have made ready their heart like an oven, whiles they lie in wait: their baker sleepeth all the night; in the morning it burneth as a flaming fire.
07:07 They are all hot as an oven, and devour their judges; all their kings are fallen: there is none among them that calleth unto me.
07:08 Ephraim, he mixeth himself among the peoples; Ephraim is a cake not turned.
07:09 Strangers have devoured his strength, and he knoweth [it] not: yea, gray hairs are here and there upon him, and he knoweth [it] not.
07:10 And the pride of Israel doth testify to his face: yet they have not returned unto the LORD their God, nor sought him, for all this.
07:11 And Ephraim is like a silly dove, without understanding: they call unto Egypt, they go to Assyria.
07:12 When they shall go, I will spread my net upon them; I will bring them down as the fowls of the heaven: I will chastise them, as their congregation hath heard.
07:13 Woe unto them! for they have wandered from me; destruction unto them! for they have trespassed against me: though I would redeem them, yet they have spoken lies against me.
07:14 And they have not cried unto me with their heart, but they howl upon their beds: they assemble themselves for corn and wine, they rebel against me.
07:15 Though I have taught and strengthened their arms, yet do they imagine mischief against me.
07:16 They return, but not to [him that is] on high; they are like a deceitful bow: their princes shall fall by the sword for the rage of their tongue: this shall be their derision in the land of Egypt.
08:01 [SET] the trumpet to thy mouth. As an eagle [he cometh] against the house of the LORD: because they have transgressed my covenant, and trespassed against my law.
08:02 They shall cry unto me, My God, we Israel know thee.
08:03 Israel hath cast off that which is good: the enemy shall pursue him.
08:04 They have set up kings, but not by me; they have made princes, and I knew it not: of their silver and their gold have they made them idols, that they may be cut off.
08:05 He hath cast off thy calf, O Samaria; mine anger is kindled against them: how long will it be ere they attain to innocency?
08:06 For from Israel is even this; the workman made it, and it is no God: yea, the calf of Samaria shall be broken in pieces.
08:07 For they sow the wind, and they shall reap the whirlwind: he hath no standing corn; the blade shall yield no meal; if so be it yield, strangers shall swallow it up.
08:08 Israel is swallowed up: now are they among the nations as a vessel wherein is no pleasure.
08:09 For they are gone up to Assyria, [like] a wild ass alone by himself: Ephraim hath hired lovers.
08:10 Yea, though they hire among the nations, now will I gather them; and they begin to be minished by reason of the burden of the king of princes.
08:11 Because Ephraim hath multiplied altars to sin, altars have been unto him to sin.
08:12 Though I write for him my law in ten thousand [precepts], they are counted as a strange thing.
08:13 As for the sacrifices of mine offerings, they sacrifice flesh and eat it; but the LORD accepteth them not: now will he remember their iniquity, and visit their sins; they shall return to Egypt.
08:14 For Israel hath forgotten his Maker, and builded palaces; and Judah hath multiplied fenced cities: but I will send a fire upon his cities, and it shall devour the castles thereof.
09:01 Rejoice not, O Israel, for joy, like the peoples; for thou hast gone a whoring from thy God, thou hast loved hire upon every cornfloor.
09:02 The threshing-floor and the winepress shall not feed them, and the new wine shall fail her.
09:03 They shall not dwell in the LORD'S land; but Ephraim shall return to Egypt, and they shall eat unclean food in Assyria.
09:04 They shall not pour out wine [offerings] to the LORD, neither shall they be pleasing unto him: their sacrifices shall be unto them as the bread of mourners; all that eat thereof shall be polluted: for their bread shall be for their appetite; it shall not come into the house of the LORD.
09:05 What will ye do in the day of solemn assembly, and in the day of the feast of the LORD?
09:06 For, lo, they are gone away from destruction, [yet] Egypt shall gather them up, Memphis shall bury them: their pleasant things of silver, nettles shall possess them: thorns shall be in their tents.
09:07 The days of visitation are come, the days of recompence are come; Israel shall know it: the prophet is a fool, the man that hath the spirit is mad, for the multitude of thine iniquity, and because the enmity is great.
09:08 Ephraim [was] a watchman with my God: as for the prophet, a fowler's snare is in all his ways, [and] enmity in the house of his God.
09:09 They have deeply corrupted themselves, as in the days of Gibeah: he will remember their iniquity, he will visit their sins.
09:10 I found Israel like grapes in the wilderness; I saw your fathers as the firstripe in the fig tree at her first season: but they came to Baal-peor, and consecrated themselves unto the shameful thing, and became abominable like that which they loved.
09:11 As for Ephraim, their glory shall fly away like a bird: there shall be no birth, and none with child, and no conception.
09:12 Though they bring up their children, yet will I bereave them, that there be not a man left: yea, woe also to them when I depart from them!
09:13 Ephraim, like as I have seen Tyre, is planted in a pleasant place: but Ephraim shall bring out his children to the slayer.
09:14 Give them, O LORD: what wilt thou give? give them a miscarrying womb and dry breasts.
09:15 All their wickedness is in Gilgal; for there I hated them: because of the wickedness of their doings I will drive them out of mine house: I will love them no more; all their princes are revolters.
09:16 Ephraim is smitten, their root is dried up, they shall bear no fruit: yea, though they bring forth, yet will I slay the beloved fruit of their womb.
09:17 My God will cast them away, because they did not hearken unto him: and they shall be wanderers among the nations.
10:01 Israel is a luxuriant vine, which putteth forth his fruit: according to the multitude of his fruit he hath multiplied his altars; according to the goodness of his land they have made goodly pillars.
10:02 Their heart is divided; now shall they be found guilty: he shall smite their altars, he shall spoil their pillars.
10:03 Surely now shall they say, We have no king: for we fear not the LORD; and the king, what can he do for us?
10:04 They speak [vain] words, swearing falsely in making covenants: therefore judgment springeth up as hemlock in the furrows of the field.
10:05 The inhabitants of Samaria shall be in terror for the calves of Beth-aven: for the people thereof shall mourn over it, and the priests thereof that rejoiced over it, for the glory thereof, because it is departed from it.
10:06 It also shall be carried unto Assyria for a present to king Jareb: Ephraim shall receive shame, and Israel shall be ashamed of his own counsel.
10:07 [As for] Samaria, her king is cut off, as foam upon the water.
10:08 The high places also of Aven, the sin of Israel, shall be destroyed: the thorn and the thistle shall come up on their altars; and they shall say to the mountains, Cover us; and to the hills, Fall on us.
10:09 O Israel, thou hast sinned from the days of Gibeah: there they stood; that the battle against the children of iniquity should not overtake them in Gibeah.
10:10 When it is my desire, I will chastise them; and the peoples shall be gathered against them, when they are bound to their two transgressions.
10:11 And Ephraim is an heifer that is taught, that loveth to tread out [the corn]; but I have passed over upon her fair neck: I will set a rider on Ephraim; Judah shall plow, Jacob shall break his clods.
10:12 Sow to yourselves in righteousness, reap according to mercy; break up your fallow ground: for it is time to seek the LORD, till he come and rain righteousness upon you.
10:13 Ye have plowed wickedness, ye have reaped iniquity; ye have eaten the fruit of lies: for thou didst trust in thy way, in the multitude of thy mighty men.
10:14 Therefore shall a tumult arise among thy people, and all thy fortresses shall be spoiled, as Shalman spoiled Beth-arbel in the day of battle: the mother was dashed in pieces with her children.
10:15 So shall Beth-el do unto you because of your great wickedness: at daybreak shall the king of Israel be utterly cut off.
11:01 When Israel was a child, then I loved him, and called my son out of Egypt.
11:02 As they called them, so they went from them: they sacrificed unto the Baalim, and burned incense to graven images.
11:03 Yet I taught Ephraim to go; I took them on my arms; but they knew not that I healed them.
11:04 I drew them with cords of a man, with bands of love; and I was to them as they that take off the yoke on their jaws, and I laid meat before them.
11:05 He shall not return into the land of Egypt; but the Assyrian shall be his king, because they refused to return.
11:06 And the sword shall fall upon his cities, and shall consume his bars, and devour [them], because of their own counsels.
11:07 And my people are bent to backsliding from me: though they call them to [him that is] on high, none at all will exalt [him].
11:08 How shall I give thee up, Ephraim? [how] shall I deliver thee, Israel? how shall I make thee as Admah? [how] shall I set thee as Zeboim? mine heart is turned within me, my compassions are kindled together.
11:09 I will not execute the fierceness of mine anger, I will not return to destroy Ephraim: for I am God, and not man; the Holy One in the midst of thee: and I will not enter into the city.
11:10 They shall walk after the LORD, who shall roar like a lion: for he shall roar, and the children shall come trembling from the west.
11:11 They shall come trembling as a bird out of Egypt, and as a dove out of the land of Assyria: and I will make them to dwell in their houses, saith the LORD.
11:12 Ephraim compasseth me about with falsehood, and the house of Israel with deceit: but Judah yet ruleth with God, and is faithful with the Holy One.
12:01 Ephraim feedeth on wind, and followeth after the east wind: he continually multiplieth lies and desolation; and they make a covenant with Assyria, and oil is carried into Egypt.
12:02 The LORD hath also a controversy with Judah, and will punish Jacob according to his ways; according to his doings will he recompense him.
12:03 In the womb he took his brother by the heel; and in his manhood he had power with God:
12:04 yea, he had power over the angel, and prevailed: he wept, and made supplication unto him: he found him at Beth-el, and there he spake with us;
12:05 even the LORD, the God of hosts; the LORD is his memorial.
12:06 Therefore turn thou to thy God: keep mercy and judgment, and wait on thy God continually.
12:07 [He is] a trafficker, the balances of deceit are in his hand: he loveth to oppress.
12:08 And Ephraim said, Surely I am become rich, I have found me wealth: in all my labours they shall find in me none iniquity that were sin.
12:09 But I am the LORD thy God from the land of Egypt; I will yet again make thee to dwell in tents, as in the days of the solemn feast.
12:10 I have also spoken unto the prophets, and I have multiplied visions; and by the ministry of the prophets have I used similitudes.
12:11 Is Gilead iniquity? they are altogether vanity; in Gilgal they sacrifice bullocks: yea, their altars are as heaps in the furrows of the field.
12:12 And Jacob fled into the field of Aram, and Israel served for a wife, and for a wife he kept [sheep].
12:13 And by a prophet the LORD brought Israel up out of Egypt, and by a prophet was he preserved.
12:14 Ephraim hath provoked to anger most bitterly: therefore shall his blood be left upon him, and his reproach shall his Lord return unto him.
13:01 When Ephraim spake, there was trembling; he exalted himself in Israel: but when he offended in Baal, he died.
13:02 And now they sin more and more, and have made them molten images of their silver, even idols according to their own understanding, all of them the work of the craftsmen: they say of them, Let the men that sacrifice kiss the calves.
13:03 Therefore they shall be as the morning cloud, and as the dew that passeth early away, as the chaff that is driven with the whirlwind out of the threshing-floor, and as the smoke out of the chimney.
13:04 Yet I am the LORD thy God from the land of Egypt; and thou shalt know no god but me, and beside me there is no saviour.
13:05 I did know thee in the wilderness, in the land of great drought.
13:06 According to their pasture, so were they filled; they were filled, and their heart was exalted: therefore have they forgotten me.
13:07 Therefore am I unto them as a lion: as a leopard will I watch by the way:
13:08 I will meet them as a bear that is bereaved of her whelps, and will rend the caul of their heart: and there will I devour them like a lion; the wild beast shall tear them.
13:09 It is thy destruction, O Israel, that [thou art] against me, against thy help.
13:10 Where now is thy king, that he may save thee in all thy cities? and thy judges, of whom thou saidst, Give me a king and princes?
13:11 I have given thee a king in mine anger, and have taken him away in my wrath.
13:12 The iniquity of Ephraim is bound up; his sin is laid up in store.
13:13 The sorrows of a travailing woman shall come upon him: he is an unwise son; for it is time he should not tarry in the place of the breaking forth of children.
13:14 I will ransom them from the power of the grave; I will redeem them from death: O death, where are thy plagues? O grave, where is thy destruction? repentance shall be hid from mine eyes.
13:15 Though he be fruitful among his brethren, an east wind shall come, the breath of the LORD coming up from the wilderness, and his spring shall become dry, and his fountain shall be dried up: he shall spoil the treasure of all pleasant vessels.
13:16 Samaria shall bear her guilt; for she hath rebelled against her God: they shall fall by the sword; their infants shall be dashed in pieces, and their women with child shall be ripped up.
14:01 O ISRAEL, return unto the LORD thy God; for thou hast fallen by thine iniquity.
14:02 Take with you words, and return unto the LORD: say unto him, Take away all iniquity, and accept that which is good: so will we render [as] bullocks [the offering of] our lips.
14:03 Asshur shall not save us; we will not ride upon horses: neither will we say any more to the work of our hands, [Ye are] our gods: for in thee the fatherless findeth mercy.
14:04 I will heal their backsliding, I will love them freely: for mine anger is turned away from him..
14:05 I will be as the dew unto Israel: he shall blossom as the lily, and cast forth his roots as Lebanon.
14:06 His branches shall spread, and his beauty shall be as the olive tree, and his smell as Lebanon.
14:07 They that dwell under his shadow shall return; they shall revive [as] the corn, and blossom as the vine: the scent thereof shall be as the wine of Lebanon.
14:08 Ephraim [shall say], What have I to do any more with idols? I have answered, and will regard him: I am like a green fir tree; from me is thy fruit found.
14:09 Who is wise, and he shall understand these things? prudent, and he shall know them? for the ways of the LORD are right, mad the just shall walk in them; but transgressors shall fall therein.
